README.md, before:

[![Joknarf Tools](https://img.shields.io/badge/Joknarf%20Tools-Visit-darkgreen?logo=github)](https://joknarf.github.io/joknarf-tools)
[![Shell](https://img.shields.io/badge/shell-bash%20-blue.svg)]()
[![OS](https://img.shields.io/badge/OS-Linux%20|%20macOS%20-blue.svg)]()


# rbs
Remote reverse interactive shell/command/ssh proxy/tunnel over ssh stdio

Just use ssh stdin/stdout to serve local shell/command/proxy/tunnel to a remote server unix socket or ip port

If a server can connect to a host through ssh, the host can connect back to the server using this ssh connection (no ingres ip port to open on server or even sshd, no TCPForward, no GatewayPort, no Tunnel needed)

## features

* reverse command/shell using ssh from local/remote server to another remote server
* reverse ssh proxy server
* no ssh tunnel needed (no TCPForwarding/Getway needed)
* just need ssh access to remote to serve a local shell/command on it, using simple fifo to communicate
* no listening process on shell served server, only use standard ssh connection
* optionnal password protected connection (using gpg)
* serve interactive shell between 2 servers using a middle server
* use unix socket or ip port to serve on remote server to connect
* compatibility Linux/MacOS (use `rbs -e` to use `expect` instead of `script` on MacOS)
* caveeat for reverse shell: automatic resize of tty size by SIGWINCH signal won't occur in session (need to use for example xterm `/bin/resize`)

## prerequites

* openssh client version OpenSSH 7.6+ (RemoteCommand in ssh config)
* `socat` on `remote` server for `rbs`
* `expect` (optional, for macOS `rbs`)
* `gpg` (optionnal password authent)
* xterm resize (optional to have tty resized to your terminal size)

* `nc` on `local` + `remote` for `rbsprox` (supporting Unix socket `-U` option)
  
## reverse shell/command serve/connect

![rbs2](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/54172be2-8c89-4684-8d8e-33af74f1e11e)

start reverse shell serve from local `host` on `remote` (need ssh access to `<remote>` from `host`) and connect to shell from `<remote>`:

```shell
# start reverse shell on host to listen on <remote>:
local$ rbs -r <remote>
# <local> spawn interactive bash -> ssh <remote> -> listen <sock>

# connect to <host> shell from <remote>:
remote$ rbs
# <remote> -> <sock> -> <host> -> interactive bash
# -> access host shell
```
add `Include ~/.ssh/rbs` in your ~/.ssh/config to avoid having `rbs` to use `-F ~/.ssh/rbs` ssh option

process view on `host` exposing the shell:
```shell
► 2674779 (joknarf) [bash] 20:05 bash
  ├─2674784 (joknarf) [script] 20:05 script -qfc bash --rcfile .bashrc /dev/null
  │ └─2674786 (joknarf) [bash] 20:05 bash -l
  └─2674785 (joknarf) [ssh] 20:05 ssh remote
```

if force use ssh (-s) for local host (uses `ssh local` instead of `script` command):
```shell
► 2676448 (joknarf) [bash] 20:09 bash
  ├─2676453 (joknarf) [ssh] 20:09 ssh local
  └─2676454 (joknarf) [ssh] 20:09 ssh remote
```

## reverse ssh proxy

start a reverse ssh proxy server:
`<local>` connects to `<remote>` to initiate unixsocket, then `<remote>` can use `<local>` as proxy without ssh connection to it.
```shell
local$ rbs -r <remote> -x
#<local> -> <spawn nc on demand to any host> -> ssh <remote> -> listen <sock>

# connect ssh to any host from <remote> using proxy on <local> (ssh -> unix socet to <local> -> <anyhost>:22)
remote$ ssh -F ~/.ssh/rbs_proxy <anyhost>
#<remote> -> ssh <anyhost> -> proxy command use <sock> to contact <local> -> <local> spawn nc to <anyhost> -> <anyhost>
```

using `rbs` only 1 connection at a time is possible, to have full featured reverse ssh proxy use `rbsprox`

![rbsprox](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/81a73d44-3769-49b0-a80d-70009df9e324)

```shell
local$ rbsprox -r <remote>
# <local> -> ssh - <remote> <wait for proxy demand>
# <local> receive demand -> nc <-> ssh remote

# connect ssh to multiple hosts from <remote> using proxy on <local>
remote$ rbsprox <anyhost>
# <remote> -> ask proxy for <anyhost> -> nc -> <local> -> <anyhost>
# or use ssh -F ~/.ssh/rbs_proxy <anyhost>
```

## Tunnel

on a server forward local/remote port and serve it on remote host.
```
local$ rbstun -r remote:4444 -f localhost:22
remote$ ssh localhost -p 4444
=> connect to "local" from remote
```

## Concepts

Basically, rbs is just using a fifo as a communication chanel to relay network traffic, and unix socket listen, allowing network connection to be sent back trough a open ssh connection initiated from a server.  
Nothing needs to listen at IP level anywhere.

Once ssh connection initiated from server to host:

* You can connect back to a server from host, even if no IP port open from host to server.
* You can use a server as a ssh proxy from host, making your connection to other servers using server IP, even if server not accessible through ssh from host.

simple examples:

* use ssh connection to do reverse shell:

```shell
# serve shell from server:
$ mkfifo /tmp/f;script -qf </tmp/f |ssh remote socat - UNIX-LISTEN:/tmp/s >/tmp/f
# then connect from remote host:
$ socat STDIO,raw,echo=0 UNIX-CONNECT:/tmp/s
```

```
        ┌──────────────────────────────┐
        │            SERVER            │
        │                              │
        │       ┌──────────────┐       │
        │       │  script PTY  │◄─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┐
        │       └──────┬───────┘       │
        │              │               │     |
        │       interactive shell      │
        │              │               │     |
        │              │               │
        │        /tmp/f (FIFO)         │     |
        │           ▲     │            │
        │           │     ▼            │     |
        │         stdin stdout         │
        │           │     │            │     |
        │       ┌───┴─────┴───┐        │
      ┌────────►│     ssh     │──────────┐   |
      │ │       └─┬───────────┘        │ │
      │ └─────────│────────────────────┘ │   |
      │           │                      │
      │           │                      │   |
      │ ┌─────────│────────────────────┐ │
      │ │         │ REMOTE             │ │   |
      │ │         │                    │ │
      │ │   ┌─────┴───────────────┐    │ │   |
      └─────│  socat              │◄─────┘
        │   │  UNIX-LISTEN:/tmp/s │    │     |
        │   └───────────┬─────────┘    │
        │          ▲    │              │     |
        │          │    ▼              │
        │   /tmp/s (UNIX socket)       |     |
        │          ▲    │              │
        │          │    ▼              │     |
        │   ┌─────────────────────┐    │
        │   │ socat               │◄ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┘
        │   │ UNIX-CONNECT:/tmp/s │    │
        │   └─────────────────────┘    │
        │                              │
        └──────────────────────────────┘
```

* use ssh connection to do a reverse proxy:

```shell
# serve proxy from server:
$ mkfifo /tmp/f; nc target 22 </tmp/f |ssh remote nc -lU /tmp/s >/tmp/f
# then connect from remote host to target using server proxy:
$ ssh -o ProxyCommand='nc -U /tmp/s' target
```

```
        ┌──────────────────────────────┐        ┌──────────────────────────────┐
        │            SERVER            │        │            TARGET            |
        │                              │        |                              │
        │       ┌──────────────┐       │        │       ┌──────────────┐       │
        │       │ nc target 22 │────────────────────────│    sshd      │       │
        │       │ TCP          │       │     ┌ ─ ─ ─ ─ ►│              │       │
        │       └──────┬───────┘       │        │       └──────────────┘       │
        │              │               │     |  └──────────────────────────────┘
        │        /tmp/f (FIFO)         │
        │           ▲     │            │     |
        │           │     ▼            │
        │         stdin stdout         │     |
        │           │     │            │
        │       ┌───┴─────┴───┐        │     |
      ┌────────►│     ssh     │──────────┐
      │ │       └─┬───────────┘        │ │   |
      │ └─────────│────────────────────┘ │
      │           │                      │   |
      │           │                      │
      │ ┌─────────│────────────────────┐ │   |
      │ │         │ REMOTE             │ │
      │ │         │                    │ │   |
      │ │   ┌─────┴───────────────┐    │ │
      └─────│  nc -Ul /tmp/s      │◄─────┘   |
        │   │  UNIX-LISTEN:/tmp/s │    │
        │   └───────────┬─────────┘    │     |
        │          ▲    │              │
        │          │    ▼              │     |
        │   /tmp/s (UNIX socket)       |
        │          ▲    │              │     |
        │          │    ▼              │
        │   ┌─────────────────────┐    │     |
        │   │ nc -U /tmp/s        │    │
        │   │ UNIX-CONNECT:/tmp/s │    │     |
        │   └─────────┬───────────┘    │
        │             │                │     |
        │             │                │
        │    ssh ProxyCommand target ◄ ─ ─ ─ ┘
        │                              │
        └──────────────────────────────┘
```

## usage

* Bypass any totally useless/buggy security tools protection auditing your tty, like "CyberFart" CAC, that is wrongly injecting bad Ctl-C to your tty, as they are totally unable to parse the command you are executing.
* Foolish security guys are just preventing you to work properly and don't understand how they are themselves dangerous for system security (breaks/truncates files during vim save/breaks interactive batch during run/scramble tmux sessions...).
* rbs allow you to have a full functionnal interactive session to a corrupted server by a stupid security tool, skipping all auditing/tty survey, this is a POC, not to be used in real life (even if rbs stays really discrete, and won't be detected).
* Advice: Never use it in your enterprise to bypass security

Commit message:

Add rbsprox usage example for MySQL connection
Updated README to include usage of rbsprox for MySQL connection.

README.md, after:

[![Joknarf Tools](https://img.shields.io/badge/Joknarf%20Tools-Visit-darkgreen?logo=github)](https://joknarf.github.io/joknarf-tools)
[![Shell](https://img.shields.io/badge/shell-bash%20-blue.svg)]()
[![OS](https://img.shields.io/badge/OS-Linux%20|%20macOS%20-blue.svg)]()


# rbs
Remote reverse interactive shell/command/ssh proxy/tunnel over ssh stdio

Just use ssh stdin/stdout to serve local shell/command/proxy/tunnel to a remote server unix socket or ip port

If a server can connect to a host through ssh, the host can connect back to the server using this ssh connection (no ingres ip port to open on server or even sshd, no TCPForward, no GatewayPort, no Tunnel needed)

## features

* reverse command/shell using ssh from local/remote server to another remote server
* reverse ssh proxy server
* no ssh tunnel needed (no TCPForwarding/Getway needed)
* just need ssh access to remote to serve a local shell/command on it, using simple fifo to communicate
* no listening process on shell served server, only use standard ssh connection
* optionnal password protected connection (using gpg)
* serve interactive shell between 2 servers using a middle server
* use unix socket or ip port to serve on remote server to connect
* compatibility Linux/MacOS (use `rbs -e` to use `expect` instead of `script` on MacOS)
* caveeat for reverse shell: automatic resize of tty size by SIGWINCH signal won't occur in session (need to use for example xterm `/bin/resize`)

## prerequites

* openssh client version OpenSSH 7.6+ (RemoteCommand in ssh config)
* `socat` on `remote` server for `rbs`
* `expect` (optional, for macOS `rbs`)
* `gpg` (optionnal password authent)
* xterm resize (optional to have tty resized to your terminal size)

* `nc` on `local` + `remote` for `rbsprox` (supporting Unix socket `-U` option)
  
## reverse shell/command serve/connect

![rbs2](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/54172be2-8c89-4684-8d8e-33af74f1e11e)

start reverse shell serve from local `host` on `remote` (need ssh access to `<remote>` from `host`) and connect to shell from `<remote>`:

```shell
# start reverse shell on host to listen on <remote>:
local$ rbs -r <remote>
# <local> spawn interactive bash -> ssh <remote> -> listen <sock>

# connect to <host> shell from <remote>:
remote$ rbs
# <remote> -> <sock> -> <host> -> interactive bash
# -> access host shell
```
add `Include ~/.ssh/rbs` in your ~/.ssh/config to avoid having `rbs` to use `-F ~/.ssh/rbs` ssh option

process view on `host` exposing the shell:
```shell
► 2674779 (joknarf) [bash] 20:05 bash
  ├─2674784 (joknarf) [script] 20:05 script -qfc bash --rcfile .bashrc /dev/null
  │ └─2674786 (joknarf) [bash] 20:05 bash -l
  └─2674785 (joknarf) [ssh] 20:05 ssh remote
```

if force use ssh (-s) for local host (uses `ssh local` instead of `script` command):
```shell
► 2676448 (joknarf) [bash] 20:09 bash
  ├─2676453 (joknarf) [ssh] 20:09 ssh local
  └─2676454 (joknarf) [ssh] 20:09 ssh remote
```

## reverse ssh proxy

start a reverse ssh proxy server:
`<local>` connects to `<remote>` to initiate unixsocket, then `<remote>` can use `<local>` as proxy without ssh connection to it.
```shell
local$ rbs -r <remote> -x
#<local> -> <spawn nc on demand to any host> -> ssh <remote> -> listen <sock>

# connect ssh to any host from <remote> using proxy on <local> (ssh -> unix socet to <local> -> <anyhost>:22)
remote$ ssh -F ~/.ssh/rbs_proxy <anyhost>
#<remote> -> ssh <anyhost> -> proxy command use <sock> to contact <local> -> <local> spawn nc to <anyhost> -> <anyhost>
```

using `rbs` only 1 connection at a time is possible, to have full featured reverse ssh proxy use `rbsprox`

![rbsprox](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/81a73d44-3769-49b0-a80d-70009df9e324)

```shell
local$ rbsprox -r <remote>
# <local> -> ssh - <remote> <wait for proxy demand>
# <local> receive demand -> nc <-> ssh remote

# connect ssh to multiple hosts from <remote> using proxy on <local>
remote$ rbsprox <anyhost>
# <remote> -> ask proxy for <anyhost> -> nc -> <local> -> <anyhost>
# or use ssh -F ~/.ssh/rbs_proxy <anyhost>
```

## Tunnel

on a server forward local/remote port and serve it on remote host.
(as no flow control, the forwarded port is directly connected, so must use it before the server times out)
```
local$ rbsprox -r remote
remote$ mysql -S $(rbxprox targethost:3306) 
=> mysql connect to "targethost" port 3306 from remote
```

## Concepts

Basically, rbs is just using a fifo as a communication chanel to relay network traffic, and unix socket listen, allowing network connection to be sent back trough a open ssh connection initiated from a server.  
Nothing needs to listen at IP level anywhere.

Once ssh connection initiated from server to host:

* You can connect back to a server from host, even if no IP port open from host to server.
* You can use a server as a ssh proxy from host, making your connection to other servers using server IP, even if server not accessible through ssh from host.

simple examples:

* use ssh connection to do reverse shell:

```shell
# serve shell from server:
$ mkfifo /tmp/f;script -qf </tmp/f |ssh remote socat - UNIX-LISTEN:/tmp/s >/tmp/f
# then connect from remote host:
$ socat STDIO,raw,echo=0 UNIX-CONNECT:/tmp/s
```

```
        ┌──────────────────────────────┐
        │            SERVER            │
        │                              │
        │       ┌──────────────┐       │
        │       │  script PTY  │◄─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┐
        │       └──────┬───────┘       │
        │              │               │     |
        │       interactive shell      │
        │              │               │     |
        │              │               │
        │        /tmp/f (FIFO)         │     |
        │           ▲     │            │
        │           │     ▼            │     |
        │         stdin stdout         │
        │           │     │            │     |
        │       ┌───┴─────┴───┐        │
      ┌────────►│     ssh     │──────────┐   |
      │ │       └─┬───────────┘        │ │
      │ └─────────│────────────────────┘ │   |
      │           │                      │
      │           │                      │   |
      │ ┌─────────│────────────────────┐ │
      │ │         │ REMOTE             │ │   |
      │ │         │                    │ │
      │ │   ┌─────┴───────────────┐    │ │   |
      └─────│  socat              │◄─────┘
        │   │  UNIX-LISTEN:/tmp/s │    │     |
        │   └───────────┬─────────┘    │
        │          ▲    │              │     |
        │          │    ▼              │
        │   /tmp/s (UNIX socket)       |     |
        │          ▲    │              │
        │          │    ▼              │     |
        │   ┌─────────────────────┐    │
        │   │ socat               │◄ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┘
        │   │ UNIX-CONNECT:/tmp/s │    │
        │   └─────────────────────┘    │
        │                              │
        └──────────────────────────────┘
```

* use ssh connection to do a reverse proxy:

```shell
# serve proxy from server:
$ mkfifo /tmp/f; nc target 22 </tmp/f |ssh remote nc -lU /tmp/s >/tmp/f
# then connect from remote host to target using server proxy:
$ ssh -o ProxyCommand='nc -U /tmp/s' target
```

```
        ┌──────────────────────────────┐        ┌──────────────────────────────┐
        │            SERVER            │        │            TARGET            |
        │                              │        |                              │
        │       ┌──────────────┐       │        │       ┌──────────────┐       │
        │       │ nc target 22 │────────────────────────│    sshd      │       │
        │       │ TCP          │       │     ┌ ─ ─ ─ ─ ►│              │       │
        │       └──────┬───────┘       │        │       └──────────────┘       │
        │              │               │     |  └──────────────────────────────┘
        │        /tmp/f (FIFO)         │
        │           ▲     │            │     |
        │           │     ▼            │
        │         stdin stdout         │     |
        │           │     │            │
        │       ┌───┴─────┴───┐        │     |
      ┌────────►│     ssh     │──────────┐
      │ │       └─┬───────────┘        │ │   |
      │ └─────────│────────────────────┘ │
      │           │                      │   |
      │           │                      │
      │ ┌─────────│────────────────────┐ │   |
      │ │         │ REMOTE             │ │
      │ │         │                    │ │   |
      │ │   ┌─────┴───────────────┐    │ │
      └─────│  nc -Ul /tmp/s      │◄─────┘   |
        │   │  UNIX-LISTEN:/tmp/s │    │
        │   └───────────┬─────────┘    │     |
        │          ▲    │              │
        │          │    ▼              │     |
        │   /tmp/s (UNIX socket)       |
        │          ▲    │              │     |
        │          │    ▼              │
        │   ┌─────────────────────┐    │     |
        │   │ nc -U /tmp/s        │    │
        │   │ UNIX-CONNECT:/tmp/s │    │     |
        │   └─────────┬───────────┘    │
        │             │                │     |
        │             │                │
        │    ssh ProxyCommand target ◄ ─ ─ ─ ┘
        │                              │
        └──────────────────────────────┘
```

## usage

* Bypass any totally useless/buggy security tools protection auditing your tty, like "CyberFart" CAC, that is wrongly injecting bad Ctl-C to your tty, as they are totally unable to parse the command you are executing.
* Foolish security guys are just preventing you to work properly and don't understand how they are themselves dangerous for system security (breaks/truncates files during vim save/breaks interactive batch during run/scramble tmux sessions...).
* rbs allow you to have a full functionnal interactive session to a corrupted server by a stupid security tool, skipping all auditing/tty survey, this is a POC, not to be used in real life (even if rbs stays really discrete, and won't be detected).
* Advice: Never use it in your enterprise to bypass security
